---
cp: 104
title: Financial Reporting 
authors: Dennis Wellmann
contributors: Jeroen Offerijns
uses-component: CP4
date-proposed: 2024-04-18
date-ended: 
status: polling
---


## Short Summary 
Proposal to build standardised real-time financial reporting for Centrifuge pools based on the data made available in the subquery. 

## High level objective 
The objective of this proposal is to improve the quality of on-chain, real time reporting available to pool issuers and investors and laying the ground work to enable issuers to produce financial reports in line with current industry standards.

## Background 
The pool's reporting tab in the Centrifuge App (see example [here](https://app.centrifuge.io/pools/4139607887/reporting)) is already a huge step forward in providing fund managers, issuers and investors access to real time data of all pool related transactions. The next step is to enrich the data available with meaningful aggregates, visuals and reports. As part of this improvement we propose to build standardized financial reports in line with industry standards. 
The three main types of financial statements are the `Balance sheet`, the `Income statement`, and the `Cash flow statement`. These three statements together show the assets and liabilities of a business, its revenues, and costs, as well as its cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities. Standard reporting in line with the above formats should be integrated into the pool's reporting tab.

## Description of Activity 
We propose to move forward with the following main steps:
* Finalize the specs of data required and output formats based on research and user interviews 
* Identify gaps to the current data structure
* Add data and logic to the subquery where needed
* Build automated reporting and export logic in UI

## Change or improvement
This would allow automated reports available in real-time from the reporting tab for every pools in line with the below sample versions.

### Balance Sheet
```
+ Asset Value 1
+ Asset Value 2
...
+ Asset Value x
= Total Asset Value
+ On-chain Reserve
+ Bank accounts
= Assets

---

+ Senior Tranche Value
+ ...
+ Junior Tranche Value
= Liabilities
```

### Income Statement
Fungible assets such as t-bills
```
+- Realized P&L
+- Unrealized P&L
+ Interest/coupon payments
= P&L from trading activity
- Fees
= Profit/Loss
```

Non-fungible assets, such as private credit
```
+ Interest payments
+ Interest accrued
= Interest income
- Fees
= Profit/Loss
```

### Cash-Flow statement
```
+ Sales / Repayments
- Purchases / Borrowing
+ Coupon / interest payments
= Gross CF from trading / lending
- Fees / costs
= Net CF from trading / lending
+ Investments
- Redemptions
= Total CF
```

## Responsible for implementation
The first part of the work requires corresponding updates to the `Subquery`. These changes will be implemented by the [EMBRIO team](https://embrio.tech/en). The front-end implementation to make the data available in the Centrifuge App will be conducted by the Apps-team of [k-f.dev](https://k-f.co/).

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO 
This proposal aligns with Centrifuge DAO's mission to provide decentralized and secure solutions for onchain fund-managers, issuers and investors. By empowering Centrifuge to become the single source of truth for reporting, the protocol facilitates transparent and compliant operations while enabling data-driven decision-making for fund managers and investors, ultimately advancing the mission of decentralized finance.


Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-financial-reporting/6351

Link to the Opensquare Snapshot: 
