**cp:** 102
**title:** Deposit additional CFG into HydraDX Omnipool
**uses-components:** [cp2]
**author:** spazcoin
**contributors:** N/A
**status:** [rfc]
**impacts:** CP53
**requires-onchain:** [yes]
**date proposed:** 2024-04-09
**Beneficiary:** N/A      (Centrifuge treasury retains control of tokens)
**Wallet:** 7LCt6dFsJVukxnxpix9KcTkwu2kWQnXARsy6BuBHEL54NcS6   (Centrifuge sibling acct on HydraDX chain)

**Short Summary**
I propose that the Centrifuge treasury make an additional CFG deposit  of **710k CFG ($595k)** into the HydraDX Omnipool to further increase Polkadot on-chain liquidity for CFG.

**High level objective**
This 710k CFG is 5% of the treasury and would bring the CFG treasury deposit in the Omnipool up to $1M or 0.22% of FDV. This would significantly reduce trading slippage of CFG within the Polkadot ecosystem and enable lending and borrowing markets.

**Background**
The Centrifuge treasury in June 2023 deposited 500k CFG into the Omnipool, currently valued at $400,763. https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-listing-cfg-in-hydradx-omnipool-seeding-initial-liquidity/5412

[https://app.hydradx.io/wallet/assets?account=7LCt6dFsJVukxnxpix9KcTkwu2kWQnXARsy6BuBHEL54NcS6]()

The 24-hour trading volume of CFG in the Omnipool is $120k with an APR of 6.04% and can be seen at: [https://app.hydradx.io/stats/overview]()
As you can see, the Centrifuge treasury deposit into the Omnipool has maintained its value over time. (the acct value in terms of CFG tokens is lower because the CFG token value increased while the stablecoins in the Omnipool did not, and they make up 20% of the Omnipool)

**Description of Activity**
With the existing CFG in the Omnipool you can only trade 16k CFG ($13,366) per trade before hitting 2% slippage. Recently in twitter discussions an investment firm mentioned they tried to buy 600k ASTR ($76k) recently but slippage was too high and they had to use a CEX instead.

https://twitter.com/Portela_Capital/status/1770811859525923256

DCA helps you break up large trades, but this reinforces the fact that we should continue to deepen our liquidity across the Polkadot ecosystem. Let’s bring those fees on-chain to Polkadot!

Another reason to increase CFG liquidity on-chain is to support larger money markets for CFG. HydraDX is launching a lending platform soon and increasing Omnipool liquidity would support a larger max cap if and when the HydraDX community decides to list CFG on their money market. This would enable another use case for CFG hodlers. Again with my thesis of using treasury-controlled funds to increase liquidity across the entire Polkadot ecosystem I would separately encourage the CFG treasury to deposit CFG liquidity ($200k?) into a CFG lending market on HydraDX to enable larger borrowing positions. (but that would be a separate future Centrifuge proposal) Interlay also has money markets but can't list tokens that have 18 decimal places like CFG. Bifrost has also launched their Loop Stake lending market but are currently only supporting their vTokens. So there is only a future opportunity for a CFG money market on Hydra.

**Change or improvement**
The great thing about all of the proposals above is that they put to use “Treasury Owned Liquidity”.
* earn fees
* add token use cases
* deepen liquidity
* no “listing fee” or reoccurring costs for market making or LM
* tokens aren’t “spent” and are still controlled by the Centrifuge community.

Q: But how much in fees?
A: Omnipool stats show CFG deposits earning 6.04% from swap fees. Deposits into lending would likely earn 3-8% once they are borrowed.

Q: But $595k from the treasury is a lot!!
A: Interlay treasury already deposited $750k of INTR and we’re discussing boosting it to $1.2M. Astar governance just passed a proposal to add another $718k of ASTR to the Omnipool. (https://forum.astar.network/t/deposit-additional-astr-into-hydradx-omnipool/6507) The Bifrost team is discussing adding another $639k of BNC as well.

I’m certainly open to discussing deposit amounts other than 710k CFG, but I’m encouraging multiple teams to deposit $1M of liquidity to send a strong “we’re open for business” signal from a cohesive Polkadot community, with minimal risk for each treasury and demonstrating the power of XCM to control funds on other chains.

**Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO**
* increase use case for CFG token and earn revenue without 'spending' any token assets
* I have reviewed the March “Updated Treasury Spending Agreement” and earnestly believe that POL strategies are one of the best uses of treasury funds.

**Description of Individual/Group seeking funding**
I am an $HDX token holder but I am not a HydraDX team member.

**Budget**
710k CFG ($595k)

**Delivery and Reporting**
If the Centrifuge community accepts this proposal, the on-chain referenda to execute it would:
1) XCM transfer the 710k CFG from Centrifuge chain to the Centrifuge sibling acct on HydraDX chain (7LCt6dFsJVukxnxpix9KcTkwu2kWQnXARsy6BuBHEL54NcS6)
2) call `multiTransactionPayment.setCurrency(13)` to set CFG as the fee token so that no other tokens are needed for further operations
3) call `omnipool.addLiquidity(13,709999000000000000000000)` to deposit the 710k CFG into the Omnipool (minus tx fee, assumed to be <1 CFG)
4) the CFG sibling acct would receive an NFT representing their second liquidity deposit into the Omnipool.

Real-time value of the Centrifuge treasury CFG deposit in the Omnipool can be monitored at: [https://app.hydradx.io/wallet/assets?account=7LCt6dFsJVukxnxpix9KcTkwu2kWQnXARsy6BuBHEL54NcS6]()

The 24-hour trading volume of CFG in the Omnipool can be monitored at: [https://app.hydradx.io/stats/overview]()

**Governance Process for this Proposal**
Link to the Github PR: https://github.com/centrifuge/cps/pull/102
Link to the RFC on the Forum:  https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-deposit-additional-cfg-into-hydradx-omnipool/6326