---
cp: 107
title: Updated Treasury Spending Agreement 
authors: cassidy
contributor: Kate_Bee, ImdioR, Rhano
uses component: CP4
proposal-type: non-technical
impacts/modifies: CP2, CP58
date-proposed: 2024-03-20
date-ended: 2024-05-13
status: passed
---

## Short Summary

This proposal aims to reconfirm the previous treasury spending agreement to both:

* continue to be cautious and conservative in spending, and;
* to agree that DAO no longer needs to completely avoid treasury spending and instead should seek to establish a clear process and objectives for treasury spending proposals.

## Background

The previous agreement on treasury spending, [CP58](https://github.com/centrifuge/cps/blob/main/cps/CP58.md), established that the Centrifuge DAO would conserve onchain treasury funds as much as possible and be cautious and conservative in spending to allow the Treasury to grow in size. This original agreement was passed on August 21, 2023 (~7 months prior to this updated proposal) and specified that it should be revisited.

The Centrifuge onchain Treasury originated with no funding. After the implementation of CP6, block rewards began to accumulate CFG to the onchain Treasury and today the onchain treasury holds roughly 9,931,100 CFG.

As a DAO we still do not yet have clear objectives for how to spend onchain treasury funds, and continue to seek a specific mandated group to support the DAO in decision making on the allocation of the Treasury, similar to how the GCG supports the DAO on governance or the Credit Group on onboarding pools. Now that the onchain treasury is growing in size, we should continue to be cautious and conservative with treasury spending and we should establish a clear process and clear objectives for spending.

## High level objective

The objective of this proposal is to continue to commit to the following agreements as a DAO:

* We agree to be diligent and conservative in spending of CFG from the on-chain Treasury.
* We agree to try to learn from the mistakes of other DAOs before us so that Centrifuge may spend its Treasury funds more wisely, and thereby give it a greater chance at succeeding in its mission.
* We agree to maintain the minimum quorum requirement to 66% of the council voting yes in order for treasury spending proposals to pass. This will need to be reassessed upon a possible move to Open Gov.
* We agree to establish a clear process and clear objectives for treasury spending by establishing a Resource and Treasury Management Group or similar where experts advise on such processes and objectives

These agreements apply to all Centrifuge community members and those making proposals to the DAO treasury.

Spending wisely here means acknowledging the market conditions and agreeing to caution, both in making proposals and submitting them, and in governing such proposals.

## Description of Activity

The previous agreement committed to the below. This updated agreement continues this commitment:

> When submitting a proposal for Treasury funding from the DAO, proposers should:
> 
> * Show your consideration of the balance of the Treasury
> * Illustrate how your proposal is the best possible use of funds
> * Demonstrate how your proposal follows this Treasury Spending Agreement
> 
> To potential treasury funding proposals this means that unfortunately many topics will be out of focus and treasury funding will have a higher hurdle at this time.
> 
> Centrifuge councilors that vote on Treasury funding requests should also take each of the above into account. In the future with a possible move to Open Gov or an update to this agreement, CFG holders that vote on treasury funding requests should continue to take the above into account when evaluating proposals.

This updated agreement additionally seeks a mandated group to be formed in the DAO to help Centrifuge set clear objectives and a clear process for treasury spending proposals.

## Responsible

* Anyone making a proposal for on-chain Treasury funding
* Centrifuge councilors and any CFG holders that vote on Treasury funding requests
* In the future, a specific mandated group to help the DAO set clear objectives

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO

The Centrifuge DAO needs access to adequate funding to have the greatest chance of succeeding in its mission. This proposal aims to reach an agreement as a DAO to be conservative in spending of the onchain Treasury and to set clear objectives for its use so that it may have the greatest impact.

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-updated-treasury-spending-agreement/6290

Link to the Opensquare Snapshot: https://voting.opensquare.io/p/201
