---
cp: 112
title: POP Anemoy DeFi Yield Fund 1
author: Nikita Eriashev
Beneficiary: Tangem AG, Baarerstrasse 10,Zug, 6300,Switzerland
uses-component: CP2
technical-proposal: no
wallet: 4fpQvcAb5oBvosEXo1w78SzdasuD8uCMyTU3eWaYtznJdSFg
requires-onchain: yes
status: voting
date-proposed: 2024-04-11
date-ended:
---


### Short Summary

Tangem shall integrate Centrifuge network (EVM) and produce 500 five hundred Centrifuge-branded wallets (2-card sets), discounting their price by 40% and covering the costs of their delivery to the address of Centrifuge's choosing.

### High level objective

Providing Centrifuge community with a secure self-custodial solution and attracting new members from Tangem's community to the network's ecosystem.

### Background

Centrifuge wishes to introduce a self-custodial cold-storage solution to its ecosystem, while Tangem has unique expertise in and wishes to provide such a solution to Centrifuge in the form of its hardware wallets. Both parties recognize potential synergies emanating from the partnership.

### Description of Activity

Tangem:

- Integrates Centrifuge EVM,
- Supports the native coin as long as the company exists,
- Enables support of Altair tokens (possibility of direct swapping in the tangem application in case if CFG, AIR token will be listed on any of Tangem's swap providers: Changelly,ChangeNow, 1inch ),
- Helps with the creation of a design,
- Produces 500 wallets with Centrifuge branding,
- Provides Cenrifuge with a 40% discount on a bulk order (each wallet shall cost 32.94 USD),
- Delivers them free of charge to a specified address.
- Delivery free of charge.

### Change or improvement

Centrifuge community members enjoy a secure and easy-to-use self-custody.

### Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO

Self-custody contributes to the security of funds. Tangem's unique backup maximizes protection against scams and other forms of crypto loss. Tangem possesses a huge community, to which Centrifuge will get exposure on social media.

#### Description of Individual/Group seeking funding

Partnership Manager

#### Budget

500 x (retail price* - 40%) = 16,470 USD

*54.9 USD

#### Requested CFG:
Funds Requested: $16,470 (approximately 25,000 CFG using the 7-day EMA price of $0.666)
Extra Funds (unused) after swapping, if the proposal passes, would be returned to the CFG Treasury in 7 days.


CFG wallet: `4fpQvcAb5oBvosEXo1w78SzdasuD8uCMyTU3eWaYtznJdSFg` , USDT (ERC20): `0xf4F8845ceDe63e79De1B2c3bbA395e8547FE4283` or USDT (TRC20): `TE1Kwh5jcWnfW8E2QDUX18QWLNhXi6NZJD`

### Delivery and Reporting

4-8 weeks from the moment Centrifuge approves the design of the wallet



Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-integration-of-the-network-into-tangem-and-production-of-500-branded-centrifuge-wallets-2-card-sets/6332

Link to the onchain vote: 
