---
cp: 127
title: Open 10 XCM channels and register parachain tokens
uses-components: cp4
author: spazcoin
contributors: N/A
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
status: rfc
date-proposed: 2024-08-30
date-ended: N/A

---

## Short Summary
I propose Centrifuge open XCM channels with the following 15 parachains and register their parachain tokens on Centrifuge:
Interlay, Bifrost, Acala, Zeitgeist, Astar, Phala, Polkadex, KILT, Pendulum, Mythical

## High level objective
Increase connectivity in the ecosystem and remove technical barriers for users and devs.

## Background
I’ve seen two problems that I’d like to solve:
1) Several OG chains like Centrifuge STILL only have a few XCM channels open.
2) I hear some users ask when their favorite parachain token will be available on a DEX and the answer is “once the team opens an XCM channel”.

I'm solving that by:
1) Polkadot ref 1071 deposited 164 DOT into Centrifuge's relaychain child account so that there's enough DOT to open 11-12 more XCM channels.
2) Submitting XCM channel opening proposals to governance of lots of parachains (like this one) so that individual parachain teams don't have to slog through the process for every channel.

## Description of Activity
Opening each bidirectional XCM channel and registering assets usually involves three referenda:
1) Parachain A initiates opening a channel to Parachain B
2) Parachain B accepts the incoming channel, initiates opening a channel back, and registers Parachain A token(s)
3) Parachain A accepts the return channel and registers Parachain B token(s)

Currently the following chains have already completed step 1 and have initiated opening an HRMP channel with Centrifuge: [Interlay](https://interlay.subsquare.io/democracy/referenda/112), [Bifrost](https://bifrost.subsquare.io/referenda/26), [Acala](https://acala.subsquare.io/democracy/proposals/28), [Zeitgeist](https://zeitgeist.subsquare.io/democracy/referenda/65)
Currently [Astar community is discussing opening 11 channels](https://forum.astar.network/t/open-11-xcm-channels-with-cfg-cru-ewt-kilt-manta-myth-neuro-plmc-xrt-sub-ztg/7178), including one to Centrifuge.
Centrifuge would need to start with step 1 and initiate opening channels with: Phala, Polkadex, KILT, Pendulum, Mythical

## Change or improvement
Opening XCM channels and cross-registering assets helps enable:
  * Trading CFG on DEXs across Polkadot: Acala, Astar, Polkadex
  * Sablecoins from Stellar to be used in Centrifuge RWA markets via Pendulum
  * Interlay could open a CFG money market (requires runtime changes to support 18 decimals)
  * Use Kilt decentralized IDs for KYC on Centrifuge?

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO
Centrifuge DAO will want to increase use cases for the CFG token, as well as looking for ways to bring more capital into CFG RWA markets or use services on other chains to accomplish CFG goals.

## Delivery and Reporting
Since opening HRMP channels requires initiation and acceptance for each direction, completion of this project will require at least two on-chain referenda, and perhaps depending on how quickly some chains return the HRMP requests. I think this process will only take two months, but I will post periodically (~2 months) with updates/status/progress.

## Governance Process for this Proposal
Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/open-10-xcm-channels-and-register-parachain-tokens/6544

Link to the onchain vote: not yet
