---
cp: 126
Title: Recovery of lost tokens in bridge transaction
authors: Imdior
contributors: cdamian, Jeroen
uses-component: cp4
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies:
status: rfc
date-proposed: 2024-08-19
date-ended: 
---



## Short Summary 
Recovery of lost tokens in the bridge transaction

## High level objective 
Recover and restore lost tokens to token holders who were affected by the bridge issue

## Background 
During the last 30 days, four bridge transactions were marked as unsuccessful or pending. In addition, affected users reported the issue with bridging assets in both directions wCFG-CFG, and CFG-wCFG.

*Example of the error:*

```
ExtrinsicStatus:: 1002: Verification Error: Runtime error: Execution failed: Execution aborted due to trap: wasm trap: wasm `unreachable` instruction executed
```

After the test the issue was found and fixed, however, unfortunately, some of the transactions didn’t go through correctly. The tokens were deducted from the source account, but the bridged funds didn’t arrive at the destination addresses.


*Affected wallet addresses:*
```
4d22XqtCaG7gwmvA2kVVcmxgFa8LXxWm1SFgkwNCg3CFx8ZX
4fj9NVP1zXkeEpaXiqAAWrGHCY6AL8W6kDyqxR7s62EC8Sca
4gnDyUcvnAurrdwZ9AVtQN4aQAPK3Q66zJRTeqPoYLnwiXkc
4h6uoT16YyH4NBnJ16g24vcjZ4MpCxZj54RawHtv7pF9JnUm
```


1.
Bridge direction: wCFG->CFG

Wallet Address: 4d22XqtCaG7gwmvA2kVVcmxgFa8LXxWm1SFgkwNCg3CFx8ZX

Tx link: https://etherscan.io/tx/0xd96a22a30e9fc2d06a864967b66fc0b206cf315afa5a2a9737a1ae7b7dbc90fc
		
Value: 0.01 CFG 															

2.
Bridge direction: wCFG->CFG

Wallet Address: 4fj9NVP1zXkeEpaXiqAAWrGHCY6AL8W6kDyqxR7s62EC8Sca	

Tx link: https://etherscan.io/tx/0x34e3cc25b5fc58d32f32d7857d9e7310b6f5458618c68524cd3f1280e3ac253d
												
Value: 100 CFG
			
3.
Bridge direction: CFG->wCFG

Wallet Address: 4gnDyUcvnAurrdwZ9AVtQN4aQAPK3Q66zJRTeqPoYLnwiXkc

Tx link: https://centrifuge.subscan.io/extrinsic/6072484-2
	
Value: 3,534 CFG + 100 CFG Bridge Fee = 3,634 CFG														

4.
Bridge direction: CFG->wCFG

Wallet Address: 4h6uoT16YyH4NBnJ16g24vcjZ4MpCxZj54RawHtv7pF9JnUm	

Tx link: https://centrifuge.subscan.io/extrinsic/6077303-2
				
Value: 701,167 CFG + 100 CFG Bridge Fee = 701,267 


## Description of Activity 
Since the tokens were deducted from the source account, but they have never been minted or wrapped on the destination account the tokens have been marked as lost.
This means that the tokens were deducted from the circulating supply (CFG-wCFG, wCFG-CFG) and they have never been minted on the destination network.

This proposal aims to restore lost tokens on affected accounts by minting the total lost balance in a keyless account and then “force transfer” the corresponding amounts to affected addresses. 

*Calculation:*
```
Total CFG lost: 701,167 CFG + 3,534 CFG + 0.01 CFG + 100 CFG = 704,801.01 CFG
Bridge Fees: 200 CFG
Grand Total CFG: 704,801.01 CFG + 200 CFG = 705,001.01 CFG
```

## Change or improvement 
Recovering the lost tokens on affected wallet addresses.

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO 
Transparency and accuracy are fundamental in Centrifuge DAO.
Recovering the lost tokens will restore financial accuracy and ensure that all financial activities are accurately recorded and accounted for.


Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp126-recovery-of-lost-tokens-in-bridge-transaction/6527

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum): https://centrifuge.subsquare.io/council/motions/102
