---
cp: 136
title: Resetting the Centrifuge council
author: Rhano
contributors: WilliamFreude 
uses-component: CP4
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies: 
status: passed
date-proposed: 2024-11-25
date-ended: 2024-12-17
---

## Short Summary
Resetting the Centrifuge council as a temporary solution until the migration from Gov1 to OpenGov.

## High Level Objective
To replace some of the councillors with new ones by removing all votes from the current council and resetting the whole council to a new set of members in order to ensure the security of Centrifuge chain in the short term.

## Background 
The Centrifuge council currently plays a crucial role in submitting motions that will become referenda if passed in the council. They are especially important when we have urgent proposals (like fixing bugs/vulnerabilities) and we thus rely on the council to act in a timely manner to submit motions and vote on them.

Some councillors have lost access to their council account, some are not able to commit in the same way they could earlier and one wallet is an unknown entity that hasn’t been active since they got voted in.

The election mechanism doesn’t work as intended either, i.e. candidates with higher number of votes (in CFG) than the actual members are not entering the list of members in the council.

## Description of Activity
We propose to remove all the current votes on councillors and reset the council to the following set of 9 councillors. It would consist of a mix of k/f core developers, ambassadors and governance facilitators:

|Name| Entity|Council Wallet|
| --- | --- | --- |
|Ash|Ambassador|4fU7xg1tWQhcyZKD2YX4B9KrHpsC8pUjkWLApsTcvV7VznmD|
|Ivan|GCG|4bj22Bq3C9AvpFne6HXD5KDfqWbYCYFNoxWEiNWjCXtzLfK8|
|Lucas|CNF|4fYrN4QvRaBf6HpWShZnFR7hNsGSEBHDw1115jYQqQE5SkTL|
|Luis G|Ambassador|4ecNXNZcmdiDahSGNZiZQ8zKj2rCiUxuuQtrME16G2NfAiYn|
|Luis E|k/f|4ck67NuZLjvbMRijqsmHdRMbGbyq2CoD99urmawqvx73WUn4|
|Miguel|Ex k/f|4eCFcfJMuzEyeJzG54zxYv5b3X34582vLbv7cfGHUwNvsW6h|
|Orhan|GCG|4h68S4rjBe57VzDUc1dzMXd3FMXvTfLteoRgkBWMc2XGh4Xa|
|Yaroslav|Ambassador|4fWLgjzJWSaWuRotm8J8Ma6PL7276UcPPLFnPn9nWdYN2QCL|
|William (Prime voter)|k/f|4dhWqvsRVE8urtAcn3RkbT1oJnqFktGF1abfvuhyC8Z13Lnd|

Going forward, the council can only be changed by submitting a new referendum, i.e. token holders can no longer vote on electing council members. 

It is important to emphasise again that this is a temporary solution as the council will disband when we migrate from Gov1 to OpenGov.

On the technical side, we will reset the current collective representing the council to the above list as well as removing the elections pallet. The change will be submitted a separate onchain motion that, if passed in the council, will be become a public referendum for all CFG token holders to vote on.

## Change or Improvement
If passed, this will ensure that we have a more responsive and active set of councillors who are able to react in a timely manner for urgent proposals.

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO
Ensuring the security of Centrifuge chain is of utmost importance and with our current current setup, the council plays a crucial role in this matter.

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp136-resetting-the-centrifuge-council/6648

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum): https://centrifuge.subsquare.io/council/motions/105
