---
cp: 143
title: Change fee for Anemoy LTF
author: martin
contributors: sirj
uses-component: CP4
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies: CP66
status: rfc
date-proposed: 2025-02-06
date-ended: 
---

## Short Summary
Anemoy Capital SPC Limited (Anemoy), the issuer of the LTF token and the Asset Manager of the Anemoy Liquid Treasury Fund 1 SP (LTF) proposes to change the fee from the current 7.5 basis points Management Fee and 7.5 basis points Protocol Fee to 15 basis points Management Fee without Protocol Fee.

## High-level objective
Make the usage of the Centrifuge protocol more attractive for traditional Asset Managers like Janus Henderson Investors (JHI). The new fee structure will help close more of those strategic partnerships and grow TVL and investor adoption. Furthermore, strategic DeFi investors expect discounted fees, which the new fee structure will be able to support better.

## Background
Anemoy and Centrifuge closed a strategic partnership with JHI, a $380 billion asset manager and leader in the ETF space. The first accomplishment of this partnership is the sub-advisory and sub-investor management of LTF. The fund will change its name to Janus Henderson Anemoy Treasury Fund and the token ticker/symbol will change from LTF to JTRSY.
JHI will manage all offchain parts of the fund processes, including portfolio management, investment strategy, trading, and NAV validation. The new fee will be split between Anemoy and JHI, meaning Anemoy will not earn more.
The new fee structure will support the partnership and in our opinion the partnership will drive investor adoption dramatically. This is underpinned by the Moody’s double A rating, which is best in class and could only be obtained because we partner with JHI, one of the most reputable ETF managers.

## Description of Activity
This proposal seeks the approval of the community to lower the protocol fees for the Anemoy LTF pool (Pool ID – 4139607887).

## ## Change or improvement
- Change Protocol Fee for Anemoy LTF ( Pool ID – 4139607887 ) from 7.5 basis points to 0 basis points.
- Change Management Fee for Anemoy LTF ( Pool ID – 4139607887 ) from 7.5 basis points to 15 basis points. The fee will be calculated by Trident Trust and be delivered with their daily NAV calculation.

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO
Anemoy brings JHI onto the Centrifuge Ecosystem. This is a key partnership for Centrifuge’s mission to bring Asset Management onchain. A stop forward to tokenize every asset and to make finance accessible to everyone.

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp143-change-fee-for-anemoy-ltf/6755/1

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum):
