---
cp: 158
title: Pool Onboarding Janus Henderson Anemoy AAA CLO Fund
author: imdior
contributors: mustermeiszer
uses-component: CP4
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies: 
status: passed
date-proposed: 2025-04-17
date-ended: 2025-04-18
---

## Short Summary 
Onboarding a new pool on Centrifuge Chain

## High level objective 
Onboarding the first onchain tokenized fund of AAA-rate CLOs on Centrifuge

## Background 

This actively managed strategy, led by Janus Henderson Investors US LLC and Anemoy Capital, is the first onchain CLO fund. It provides exposure to highly rated collateralized loan obligations (CLOs), primarily investing in AAA-rated tranches backed by diversified pools of senior secured loans issued by corporations. By focusing on the highest-rated CLO securities, the strategy aims to deliver attractive yields while maintaining strong credit quality and risk-adjusted returns.

Managed by experienced fixed income teams at Janus Henderson Investors US LLC and Anemoy Capital, this approach offers access to institutional-grade CLOs with a focus on liquidity, transparency, and the efficiency of blockchain-based fund administration. CLOs have historically demonstrated resilience through market cycles, benefiting from structural protections and active management. This strategy seeks to capitalize on those advantages, making it an appealing option for income-focused investors looking for alternatives to traditional fixed income assets like corporate bonds or Treasuries.

Designed to provide enhanced yield potential with low risk and volatility, the strategy is well-suited for investors seeking diversification within their credit exposure. Active management enables it to navigate changing market conditions while maintaining a focus on high credit quality and liquidity.

## Change or improvement 
Onboard Janus Henderson Anemoy AAA CLO Fund on Centrifuge Chain

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO 

Onboarding an onchain tokenized fund of AAA-rate CLOs aligns with Centrifuge DAO's mission to integrate real-world assets into DeFi, enhancing diversification, inclusivity, yield potential with low risk and ecosystem growth.


Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp158-pool-onboarding-janus-henderson-anemoy-aaa-clo-fund/6845

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum): https://centrifuge.subsquare.io/council/motions/117
