---
cp: 162
title: Enable Protocol Revenue Through CNF-Managed Fee Flows
author: bhaji
contributors: martin, imdior
uses-component: CP4
technical-proposal: yes
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies: CP143, CP158, CP151
status: rfc
date-proposed: 2025-08-12
date-ended: 
---


## Short Summary
As part of the Centrifuge V3 migration, onchain protocol fees are not yet supported. To ensure Centrifuge captures value from the growing demand for tokenized RWAs, the Centrifuge Network Foundation (CNF) proposes to temporarily manage fee collection and distribution. CNF will receive all fees generated by Anemoy-managed products and distribute them to key service providers, with 100% of net fees retained by Centrifuge.

## High-level objective
Centrifuge is entering a new phase: for the first time, the protocol will begin generating fee-based revenue. In the early days of the RWA market, growth was driven by waiving fees and offering incentives. That strategy worked for early product testing and evolution. 

Now, the market is shifting. RWAs have become institutionalized and in-demand. Allocators want exposure to high-quality, tokenized products, and Centrifuge is leading the charge. The Janus Henderson Anemoy Treasury Fund (JTRSY) is one of the top five tokenized T-Bill funds by TVL. Its follow-on product, the Janus Henderson Anemoy AAA CLO Fund (JAAA), is on track to become the fastest tokenized fund to $1B TVL.

Because protocol-level fee functionality is not yet live in V3, CNF will manage fees for Anemoy. CNF will operate with full transparency and in the best interest of Centrifuge, ensuring service providers are paid, partners are supported, and all net proceeds are retained for the benefit of the protocol. Responsibilities will be transferred back to the DAO when protocol fees are supported. Until then, CNF will provide reports to the Centrifuge DAO. 

## Background
Centrifuge incubated Anemoy in 2023 to help demonstrate traditional financial institution use cases in DeFi. Anemoy provides a bridge between regulated TradFi structures and Centrifuge infrastructure.

This model has proven successful. Through Anemoy, Centrifuge has brought credible institutions and strong products into the ecosystem, driving TVL growth, protocol adoption, and long-term value creation. While Anemoy issues and operates the funds, it is Centrifuge that captures the upside. Managing fee flows properly is key to ensuring that value accrues to the protocol and its community.

## Description of Activity
Until onchain fee functionality is live in Centrifuge V3, CNF will take responsibility for collecting and managing fees associated with Anemoy-issued products. This will be done with Anemoy’s independent fund administrator to ensure accurate fee calculation and oversee the distribution of those fees to service providers and partners. The protocol fee of 50 basis points for JAAA will be changed to 0 (zero) to prepare for this change and the coming V3 migration of the JAAA pool.

## Change or improvement
- CNF will receive all fees charged by Anemoy for products such as JTRSY and JAAA
- CNF will manage offchain calculation and distribution of fees to key service providers
- 100% of net proceeds will remain with Centrifuge
- Anemoy's protocol fees will be changed to 0 (zero)

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO
The Centrifuge Network Foundation is governed by a board dedicated to advancing the Centrifuge ecosystem. The onchain fee infrastructure will soon be available. Until then, CNF will serve as a trusted steward, ensuring value flows back to the protocol, partners are incentivized, and strategic growth is supported. This approach balances flexibility for institutional adoption with accountability to the DAO, helping Centrifuge scale sustainably and remain at the forefront of onchain RWAs.

```
Link to the RFC on the Forum:  https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp162-enable-protocol-revenue-through-cnf-managed-fee-flows/7050/ 


Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum): 
