
---
cp: 168
authors: 0xJulCaesar, Imdior, Kate_bee, theoyster
contributors: -
beneficiary: TAG
wallet: 4g2JJ7Lq56WgSvPdzsGuLQRbmU3EAQmYK8SH23JmWmi2j1iX
uses-component: cp2
technical-proposal: No
requires-onchain: yes
impacts/modifies: no
status: voting
date-proposed: 2025-07-31
date-ended: 
---


# Proposal Renewal: Treasury Advisory Group (TAG) Mandate and Funding Request

---

## **Short Summary**

This proposal seeks to renew the mandate and funding for the Treasury Advisory Group (TAG) for an additional 6-month period.

## **High Level Objective**

The renewal of TAG’s mandate will ensure continuity in providing valuable expertise and support for wise treasury management, governance processes, and resource allocation as well as providing input on token utility, a crucial element in the success of the Centrifuge DAO.

## **Background of Proposal**

TAG has successfully facilitated and advised on treasury-related activities for the Centrifuge DAO, delivering on its initial mandate to improve treasury management, accountability, and transparency as well as taking further measures to activate the Centrifuge DAO, as will be expanded on in this RFC.

---

### **Achievements of TAG (Past 6 Months)**

**Deliverables**:

* **Treasury Report**: Delivered detailed treasury overview, including inflow, outflow, and financial performance updates.  [CFG Treasury Report by TAG #3](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1kPqLVTiZxRcZGa3cc8JVRjtnTEu0bXyHIGD9Y96_-64/edit?usp=sharing)

* **Proposal Assessment**: [CP155: Funding Request for ADE Tokenization Platform Development with Innowise](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1vih4qK6KZrmhlEyDeroCsfeq8lkexgCWj2EHMGkHpj8/edit?usp=sharing)

* **Educational Initiatives\***: Actively participated in 3 governance calls alongside 3 Active Contributors calls.

* **Centrifuge DAO Grant Program\*:** Strategised a detailed grant program.

* **CFG DAO Renaissance:** The TAG has heard increased demand from CFG holders for token utility. We’ve worked on token utility and DAO marketing strategies. [ TAG: Token Utility Report](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1SYmZ9AslI1f64i4nuc4V_ThluVN_qz_8_Ej-CQo9WA0/edit?tab=t.0#heading=h.4j0dmjl4eo0w)

* **Additional Initiatives:** Drafted in-depth research on token utility mechanisms to improve the position of the CFG token

**Impact and Outcomes:**

* Enhanced decision-making for DAO members through clear and transparent information.

* Improved accountability for funded projects.

* Strengthened alignment between treasury spending and the goals of Centrifuge DAO.

* Increased DAO activity.

* Simple and straightforward overview of the DAO Treasury.

* Impetus and motivation for the retail audience of CFG via token utility initiatives.

*\*Due to migration, some of the deliverables like the Grant Program, and educational sessions, had to be postponed, however, instead, we focused on other areas, like token utility and DAO marketing*

---

### **Proposed Objectives for the Next 6 Months**

1. **Spending Advisory**

   * Continue assessing treasury proposals and providing non-binding opinions.

   * Refine spending priorities to align with updated DAO goals.

2. **Support on the new DAO [Marketing](https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/new-advisor-introduction/7023/6) Taskforce**

3. **Community Education**

   * Host more educational sessions and workshops to foster an understanding of treasury activities.

   * Publish simplified guides and graphics on treasury processes.

   * Treasury Reports

4. **CFG DAO Renaissance**

   * Finalize the strategy to make CFG Token gain more utility and reactivate DAO engagement.

5. **Grant Program**

   * Initiate a pilot Grant Program to explore and identify opportunities for Centrifuge Treasury growth

   * Start with targeted micro-grants to test and refine the program structure

   * Create an initial framework that can be scaled based on community engagement and success metrics

   * Focus on smaller, achievable projects that can demonstrate clear value to the ecosystem

   * Gather feedback and learnings to potentially expand the program’s scope in future iterations

   * Evaluate outcomes to develop best practices for a potentially larger grant program

6. **Community Campaign: Quests**

   * Craft a community campaign to build more wallets.

   * Activate new retail demand from Ethereum.

### **Memberships**

**Proposed Members**:

* Kate Beecroft (Lead)

* ImdioR

* 0xJulCaesar

* Andrew Liffey (OnlyDeFiGuy)

* New member: will be announced

---

### **Proposed Funding Request**

We significantly extended our proposed objectives for the next six months, which will require additional time.

We have adjusted our funding contributions to maintain and further enhance the quality and scope of our services up to 8 hours per week.The Treasury Advisory Group is currently seeking to expand its membership by one, specifically in an area of targeted expertise. This strategic addition is intended to enhance the overall effectiveness of the group and pave the way for new opportunities and initiatives.

Upon approval, the selected candidate will be formally introduced on the community forum to ensure transparency and engagement with stakeholders.

In case that is not going to happen as planned, TAG will initiate a refund of the associated token allocation back to the Treasury.

The following changes:

## **Budget Overview (6 Months)**:

| Category            | Description                                                  | Budget (USD) |
|---------------------|--------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|
| Member Compensation | Payment for 3 members' work (8 hours per week, $70/hour = $560/week or $2,240/month for 6 months). Note: 2 members' compensation is covered by CNF. | $40,320      |
| Expert Consultation | Payment for external experts when TAG lacks requisite knowledge. | $6,000       |
| Total               | $46,320 equivalent (approx. 185,280 CFG at a current price of $0.25)* |              |
| Requested amount:   | 185,280 CFG                                                  |              |


**Payment Terms**:

* Payment will be requested in one bi-annual instalment.

* Any unused funds will be returned to the DAO treasury after accounting for all expenses.

---

## **Change or improvement**

Working hours have been increased from 6.5 hours per week to 8, and a new specialist is being added to the team. Therefore, the request is 185,280 CFG instead of 153,330 CFG for 6 months.

## **Alignment to the mission of the Centrifuge DAO**

The renewal of the TAG mandate will directly contribute to the realization of CentrifugeDAO’s vision and mission through the following efforts:

* Support on the new DAO Marketing Taskforce

* Spending Advisory

* Community Education

* CFG DAO Renaissance

* Grant Program

* Community Campaigns

## **Conclusion**

Renewing TAG’s mandate is critical for the sustainable and transparent management of Centrifuge DAO’s treasury. With this renewal, TAG aims to build upon its past success and further enhance the DAO’s financial decision-making processes and governance framework.

**TAG Multi-Sig Wallet Address**: \[[4g2JJ7Lq56WgSvPdzsGuLQRbmU3EAQmYK8SH23JmWmi2j1iX](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4g2JJ7Lq56WgSvPdzsGuLQRbmU3EAQmYK8SH23JmWmi2j1iX)\]


Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp164-renewal-treasury-advisory-group-funding/7034

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + referendum): https://centrifuge.subsquare.io/council/motions/122
