---
cp: 34
title: Open HRMP channels between Centrifuge and HydraDX 
authors: jgreen
contributors:
proposal-type: CP-4 technical
date-proposed: 2023-02-02
status: polling 
---

## Short Summary
We propose to open HRMP communication between Centrifuge and HydraDX with subsequent intent to list CFG into the Omnipool

## High-level objective


## Background
HydraDX is a next-gen DeFi protocol which is designed to bring an ocean of liquidity to Polkadot. Our tool for the job the HydraDX Omnipool - an innovative Automated Market Maker (AMM) which unlocks unparalleled efficiencies by combining all assets in a single trading pool.

## Detailed description of the proposal
The procedure for opening the channels is as follows:

1. [HydraDX](https://hydradx.io/) proposes to open the HydraDX to Centrifuge HRMP channel.
2. Centrifuge proposes (a batch) to accept the HydraDX to Centrifuge HRMP channel and open the Centrifuge to HydraDX HRMP channel
3. Wait until the proposal on step 2 gets approved & enacted.
4. HydraDX accepts the Centrifuge to HydraDX HRMP channel
5. Wait for another session on Polkadot for the change to be effective.
These extrinsics need to be called with the parachain’s sovereign account as the origin. To achieve this, on the HydraDX side we will use polkadot-xcm pallet to send XCM message to the relay chain, by executing the following extrinsic from the parachain. Centrifuge should make an open request call and an accept request call with its pallet.

As a prerequisite, the parachain’s sovereign account must contain at least 20 DOT to be locked as collateral (10 for each channel direction), plus some DOT to pay for XCM execution fees.

## Change or improvement
Opening HRMP channels which allow cross-chain communication, as per [Cross-Consensus Message Format (XCM)](https://wiki.polkadot.network/docs/learn-xcm#hrmp-xcmp-lite)

## Responsible
jgreen, Nuno

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO
Cross-chain communication and cooperation is one of the core principles of Polkadot. Both sides, the Centrifuge DAO and HydraDX DAO, will benefit from moving this proposal forward. With growing liquidity and number of listed assets in the HydraDX Omnipool, everyone will be able to gain access to a decentralized, permissionless and frictionless way to trade (or accrue value of) CFG with high capital efficiency and low slippage.

##Benefits for CFG holders
Users will be able to trade native CFG within the dotsama ecosystem, no need to use CEXs or bridge to Ethereum anymore.

Omnipool will allow:
- Trading CFG vs. any other asset in the Omnipool (currently HDX, DOT, DAI, wETH, wBTC + planned native USDT and USDC)
- Single-sided LPing

In short-term horizon:
- DCA (dollar-cost averaging)
- Liquidity-mining
- Dynamic fees

In mid-term horizon:
- Stableswap pools
- Order batching

Note: non-native dotsama assets are bridged to the Omnipool through Wormhole

### Docs and detailed information:
https://docs.hydradx.io/

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-open-hrmp-channels-between-centrifuge-and-hydradx/5104
