---
cp: 45
title: Runtime Upgrade 1018 + Add CFG and DOT to Asset Registry
authors: k/f
contributors: branan, cdamian, gpmayorga, lemunozm, mikiquantum, mustermeiszer, NunoAlexandre, offerijns, thea-leake, wischli
proposal-type: CP3
date-proposed: 2023-04-17
date-ended: 
status: polling
---

## About this proposal

We propose to batch the Runtime Upgrade 1018 with the Asset Registry inclusion of `CFG` and `DOT`.

### List of content of this Runtime Upgrade

We are excited to announce the inclusion of Pools in the Centrifuge runtime, a significant enhancement to our platform. As a result, investors will now have the opportunity to invest in RWA Pools on the purpose-built Centrifuge chain, which operates under the robust security umbrella of Polkadot. This new feature complements the existing Tinlake on Ethereum, expanding investment options for our valued users.

* Add pallets for `PoolRegistry`, `PoolSystem`, `Permissions`, `Investments` and `InterestAccrual` ([PR #1233](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/pull/1233))
* Refactor `pallet-loans` to allow better scalability in loans. Instead of choosing between fixed loan types, they can now be composed with different valuations/restrictions/schedules—improvements in the written-off systems and a lot of simplifications to reason easier about loans as a borrower ([PR #1180](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/pull/1180))
    * For more details, please check the [corresponding specification](https://centrifuge.hackmd.io/2h9F9m45Qo2mIMZs9e6Z1Q?view)
* Significantly improved interest rate accrual and NAV update efficiency ([PR #1157](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/pull/1157))
* Added new proxy type `PermissionManagement` which will be used for adding new investors by onboarding API ([PR #1197](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/pull/1197))
  
**Release Notes**: https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/releases/tag/v0.10.26
**Full Changelog**: https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/compare/v0.10.24...release-v0.10.26

### Asset Registry Update

When we first added XCM to our runtimes (first Altair and later Centrifuge), the first token we supported was Acala’s `AUSD` and for that we just added AUSD as a hardcoded variant of our `CurrencyId` enum type. That type enumerates all the currency ids that the Centrifuge chain knows about or is able to handle. Later, improving our XCM setup, we introduced the ORML asset registry for two purposes:

1. So that we could support new tokens through XCM by simply registering them in the asset registry instead of hardcoding them in the CurrencyId type and thus not require runtime upgrades to support new tokens.
2. So that we had a standardised way of querying metadata for all tokens that Centrifuge handles, i.e, both native tokens like `CFG` and Tranche tokens, as well as “foreign” tokens like `AUSD`, `USDC`, etc.
This motion is now a step into cleaning up that first legacy, “hardcoding”-based approach; we do that by dropping those hardcoded currency variants (`AUSD` and `KSM` (the latter only applicable on Altair)) and have them registered as `Currency::ForeignAsset(<asset_id>)` in the asset registry instead.
The next step will be to migrate all balances that are now under `CurrencyId::AUSD` and `CurrencyId::KSM` to `CurrencyId::ForeignAsset(<aUSD_asset_id>)` and `CurrencyId::ForeignAsset(<ksm_asset_id>)`, respectively.

For more context, please check [Issue #886](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/issues/826).

The corresponding preimage hash is `0x6de31686f6a4fbf1584f91e45961862f44e5a692b23a122bc29e26c5e2275d60`.

## Governance process for this proposal
1. Public proposal
2. Referendum vote open for 50,400 blocks (~7 days)
3. If referendum succeeds: Enactment after 57,600 blocks (~8 days)
