---
cp: 57
title: Distribution of unpaid Collators rewards 
authors: Governance and Coordination Group (ImdioR, Orhan)
uses component: CP2
date-proposed: 2023-07-13
date-ended: 2023-07-24
status: passed
---

```
Uses component: CP2
Author(s): Governance and Coordination Group (@ImdioR, @Rhanon)
Beneficiary: Centrifuge Collators
Wallet: 4cTwGSYkbpeZn5byhuLe2MrZa22aQJ6st3HJHg7Fyx3RLg7m (GCG Multi-sig wallet)
Date proposed: 2023-07-13
```
### Short Summary

- Payment of remuneration for the Collators' work done

### High-level objective

- This proposal will repay 43,165 CFG to the 1st and 2nd batch of Collators.

#### Background

Collators could not be paid since the onboarding as the Centrifuge Treasury was empty.

But with the implementation of Block Rewards and Collators Cycle with [CP54](https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/cp54-runtime-upgrade-1019/5533/2) the Centrifuge Treasury started to get funded and Collators started to receive direct payment in accordance with [CP6](https://github.com/centrifuge/cps/blob/main/cps/CP6.md).

- The first batch of collators ( Masternode24, Ryabina, Moonli.me, Validatrium, StakeCraft) was onboarded on 31.10.2022 ( [Referendum 21](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/referenda/21?tab=timeline))

- The second batch of collators ( Good Karma, Polkadotters, Staker Space, PathRockNetwork, The Phunky One) was onboarded on 16.06.2023 ([ Referendum 36](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/referenda/36) )

The Collator Cycle was activated the 03.07.2023

#### Description of Activity

- Calculation of the total amount that should be distributed and repayment of rewards

#### Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO

- This proposal will repay the Collators' rewards for the 8 months of service provided for Centrifuge DAO.

### Budget

#### What amount is requested and how is it calculated?

Total amount requested: **43,165 CFG**
We are calculating the payment since the enactment of the Referendum 21 and 36.

#### How the amount is calculated:

Centrifuge Collators payment: 1000 CFG/month

* 1st batch: Full 8 months +2 days= (8000+33,3CFG*2) CFG/Collator *5 Collators = 40333 CFG
* 2nd batch: 17 days = 33,3 CFG/day*17 days*5 Collators= 2830.5 CFG


#### How are the funds distributed within the group?

* 8066 CFG to each collator: Masternode24, Ryabina, Moonli.me, Validatrium, StakeCraft
* 566.1 CFG to each collator: Good Karma, Polkadotters, Staker Space, PathRockNetwork, The Phunky One

#### Delivery and Reporting

- The funds will be transferred to all collators immediately after receiving them. All transactions can be verified on [Subscan](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4cTwGSYkbpeZn5byhuLe2MrZa22aQJ6st3HJHg7Fyx3RLg7m?tab=transfer) and we will link to all of them if this proposal passes.


Please note that this will be a direct request from the treasury and the total supply will not be increased.

The RFC topic will be open for 7 days.

Please note:
This will be a direct request from the treasury and the total supply will not be increased.
*There will be no Opensquare snapshot vote (or public referendum) for this proposal.*

**Looking forward to any feedback and any concerns that you might have with this proposal.**

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-distribution-of-unpaid-collators-rewards/5566

Link to the onchain vote (council motion + treasury proposal): https://centrifuge.subsquare.io/council/motions/69


