---
cp: 78
title: Runtime Upgrade 1024
authors: k/f
contributors: cdamian, thea-leake, branan, lemunozm, mustermeiszer, NunoAlexandre, wischli
uses-component: CP3.1
date-proposed: 2023-12-07
date-ended: 
status: voting
---

## About this proposal

Upgrade Centrifuge Chain to Runtime Version 1024
-----------------------------------------------------

Upgrade Priority:

Full Nodes: ❗️ High ❗️ - Please upgrade as soon as possible.
Collators: Medium - Please upgrade at your earliest convenience.
Upgrading before executing the corresponding runtime upgrade should not introduce block production issues.

Be aware that there are several breaking changes for node operators. It's important to read the following section carefully due to these breaking changes!

### Client: Breaking Changes
The upgrade to Polkadot v0.9.43 inherited a plurality of breaking changes, mainly affecting node operators.

### CLI
See Polkadot v0.9.43 release:

This release removes the following CLI parameters:
--rpc-max-payload (replaced by --rpc-max-request-size and --rpc-max-response-size)
--ws-max-out-buffer-capacity
--ws-external (replaced by --rpc-external)
--unsafe-ws-external (replaced by --unsafe-rpc-external)
--ipc--path
--ws-port (replaced by --rpc-port)
--ws-max--connections (replaced by --rpc-max-connections)
--rpc-http (replaced by --rpc-addr)
--rpc-ws (replaced by --rpc-addr)

### Relaychain folder renaming
Another inheritance from the Polkadot release is the forced default relaychain directory name. It was changede fro relaychain to polkadot.

For Centrifuge Chain docker clients, we have fixed the issue by renaming the directory via an entrypoint script. However, if you are running the client with another method, you need to do this manually to circumvent resyncing the entire relaychain.

### Docker: Unix permissions
We optimized our docker image by decreasing the size by roughly 20% 🚀

Moreover, the security was optimized. On the one side, vulnerabilities went from 10 High and 200 Medium to 0 High and 5 Medium. On the other side, the container is not run by root anymore. Instead, it is run by centrifuge user with user id 1000.

Unfortunately, the latter change is breaking for anyone using docker and assuming running as root by default. In this case, you either need to force the container to run as root or make sure all mounted directories have the right permissions for centrifuge user with id 1000. For Kubernetes, an init container can be added to modify permissions as root before the actual container starts:

spec:
  initContainers:
  - name: init-container
    image: busybox
    command: 
    - 'sh'
    - '-c'
    - |
      chown -R 1000:1000 /data
      chown -R 1000:1000 /config
    volumeMounts:
    - mountPath: /config
      name: config-volume
    - mountPath: /data
      name: storage-volume 
Docker: New name tag syntax
In the past, the docker tags could not be linked to official releases without checking the release notes. Moreover, release and dev tags could not be distinguished. We have introduced latest tag which pins the latest official release.

There are five types of docker tags:

Latest official version: latest tag
Releases mainnet build: ${TAG}-${SHA}-${YY-MM-DD} tag
Releases testnet build: test-${TAG}-${SHA}-${YY-MM-DD} tag
Push to main branch mainnet build: main-${SHA}-${YY-MM-DD} tag
Push to main branch testnet build: test-main-${SHA}-${YY-MM-DD} tag
Update: It appears that the release CI pipeline is not working as expected. This will be fixed by the next release.

## Centrifuge 1024 - Release Notes Highlights
BREAKING: Upgrade to Polkadot v0.9.43 (#1577, #1622, #1626, #1640)
See below for details
Feat: Add transfer allowlist pallet for local (via balances) and xcm transfers (via xtokens) (#1621)
Allows setting a filter for transfer destinations
Feat: Debt transfer (#1615)
Feat: InvestmentPortfolio API (#1608)
Liquiditypools:
Add compute_at to UpdateTrancheTokenPrice (#1598)
Add restriction_set field to AddTranche message (#1610)
CI: Rewrite & Improvements (#1551, #1611, #1619, #1624, #1625, #1628, #1636)
Migrations
No migrations for this release.

### Breaking Changes
The following changes are all inherited from upgrading from Polkadot v0.9.38 to Polkadot v0.9.43

The balances::transfer call will soon™️ be deprecated. It is replaces with balances::transfer_allow_death (paritytech/substrate#12951)
Switch from balance locks and reserves to balance freezes and holds (paritytech/substrate#12951)
Require existential deposit for all currencies except for tranche tokens (#1596, #1577)
The amount for each currency is taken from the existential_deposit field in the corresponding Asset Registry entry
An ExistentialDeposit of zero no longer works. If you need to allow any account to have a zero balance and retain associated account data, you must introduce a pallet which allows an unpermissioned frame_system::Pallet::<Runtime>::inc_providers(). (paritytech/substrate#12951)

### WASM

Since the latest srtool does not produce a WASM report due to this issue, the following WASM information is provided by subwasm v0.16.1 which is internally used by srtool as well.

```
Summary generated with srtool v0.9.25 using the docker image paritytech/srtool:1.66.1:
 Package     : centrifuge-runtime v0.10.23
 GIT commit  : 160318c7189f6e35814f72768c62de6c866d3476
 GIT tag     : 
 GIT branch  : main
 Rustc       : rustc 1.66.1 (90743e729 2023-01-10)
 Time        : 2023-10-06T17:28:03Z
== Compressed
 Version          : centrifuge-1023 (centrifuge-1.tx2.au1)
 Metadata         : V14
 Size             : 1.69 MB (1775385 bytes)
 Compression      : 78.7%
 setCode          : 0xa5b862b749cd2da164dc5c3cbc3d1f2683212e66f5ca72791f1d480ea2abc711
 authorizeUpgrade : 0x1b63b035cf702d9c8c8cf0676437a4974602ebc074bf0bfae05782446375aa5a
 IPFS             : QmQkWnCZ4XdkintcVtMfdHnJVuqyva8h39j75kmR7LugVX
 BLAKE2_256       : 0xcd393115b86484068d173d2b582f843e5f7c15f42d4026470316ce9a64d07701
 Wasm             : runtime/centrifuge/target/srtool/release/wbuild/centrifuge-runtime/centrifuge_runtime.compact.compressed.wasm
```

**Full Changelog** : [v0.10.31...v0.10.34](https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/compare/v0.10.31...v0.10.34)
**Relase Notes**: https://github.com/centrifuge/centrifuge-chain/releases/tag/v0.10.34


## Governance process for this proposal
1. Council Motion + fast-track
2. Referendum vote open for 28,800 blocks (~4 days)
3. If the referendum passes: the enactment will be immediately after