---
cp: 81
title: Unclaimed Tinlake Rewards 
authors: ImdioR
uses-component: CP4 Technical
date-proposed: 2023-12-15
date-ended: 2023-12-30
status: passed
---

### Short Summary 
- Transfer unclaimed Tinlake rewards to Centrifuge DAO Treasury

### High-level objective 
- This proposal, if passed, will transfer unclaimed Tinlake tokens to  Centrifuge DAO Treasury which will beneficially impact the self-sustainability of the Protocol.

### Background 

Over the past several years, CFG tokens were distributed to Tinlake investors as bootstrap rewards on Tinlake. However, after the Centrifuge Community approved [CP61](https://github.com/centrifuge/cps/blob/main/cps/CP61.md), the distribution of rewards on Tinlake was stopped.

Due to various reasons during the rewards distribution, not all Tinlake investors wanted to claim them. This resulted in a certain amount of unclaimed tokens being held in Tinlake wallets.
Up to date, [Tinlake wallet](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4dpEcgqJNczMyoTnUuFTyTLSe5RuoSSoGZMqu3L6fvc8jBbd) holds 4,693,255 CFG tokes.

There has already been discussion among community members on the Governance Forum regarding the transfer of Unclaimed Tinlake Rewards to the Centrifuge DAO Treasury. Based on the feedback received on this topic, I would like to propose the following proposal to the Community.

### Description of Activity 
The primary purpose of this proposal is to provide ample time for Tinlake Investors to claim their rewards and transfer any unclaimed tokens after the provided period from the Tinlake wallet to the Centrifuge DAO Treasury wallet.

These transferred CFG tokens could be used for the benefit of protocol improvement for example Pool rewards on the Centrifuge Chain, Development, self-sustainability, future proposals etc.

#### The action plan structure:

> 1. Create an Opensquare snapshot vote
> 2. If the Opensquare snapshot vote passes provide 30 days period for claiming the rewards from the date of the approval of Opensquare Snapshot, after which any remaining tokens will be sent to the Centrifuge DAO treasury.
> 3. After 30 days from the approval of the Opensquare snapshot vote(if it is passed) upload an empty claim tree.
> 4. Create an on-chain governance vote for transferring unclaimed rewards from the Tinlake wallet to the Centrifuge DAO Treasury wallet.
> 5. Remove the pallet in the future upcoming Centrifuge Runtime Upgrade.


### Change or improvement 
- Discontinue rewards claiming on Tinlake 30 days after the date this proposal passes (if it is passed)
- Transfer any remaining tokens from the **Tinlake wallet** ( [4dpEcgqJNczMyoTnUuFTyTLSe5RuoSSoGZMqu3L6fvc8jBbd](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4dpEcgqJNczMyoTnUuFTyTLSe5RuoSSoGZMqu3L6fvc8jBbd) ) to the **Centrifuge DAO Treasury wallet** ( [4dpEcgqJRyJK3J8Es6v8ZfVntV7c64Ysgcjd4hYwyGoFPWbg](https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4dpEcgqJRyJK3J8Es6v8ZfVntV7c64Ysgcjd4hYwyGoFPWbg) )

### Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO 
- Increasing Centrifuge DAO Treasury funds will ensure the ongoing development and maintenance of the protocol and will guarantee future development and innovation of the Protocol, as well as support other activities that are deemed to be in the best interest of the protocol and token holders.

------------------

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-unclaimed-tinlake-rewards/5885

Link to the Opensquare Snapshot: https://voting.opensquare.io/p/175
