---
cp: 84
title: Unclaimed Polkadot Rewards
authors: Imdior, Rhano 
uses-component: CP4
proposal-type: Technical
date-proposed: 2024-01-17
date-ended: 2024-02-05
status: Passed
---

### Short Summary 
- Discontinue claiming of Centrifuge crowdloan rewards

### High-level objective 
- This proposal, if passed, will discontinue claiming of Centrifuge crowdloan rewards which will beneficially impact the tokenomics of Protocol

### Background 

Around 2 years ago Centrifuge won the 8th slot in Parachain auctions collecting 5,435,161 DOT raised from 27,101 contributions.
2024-01-16 the leasing period ended and all DOTs were returned to all contributors.
 
Throughout the leasing period, the CFG protocol carried out significant updates not only to the CFG network through Runtime Upgrades, but also carried out significant Polkadot updates, which entailed changes and sometimes unexpected bugs, and errors, including errors in claiming crowdloan rewards.
In this regards, engineers were forced to fix and be distracted from the development and implementation of new features.

### Description of Activity 
The primary purpose of this proposal is to provide ample time for crowdloan contributors to claim their rewards and, after a certain period (described in detail below) suspend claiming.

Discontinuing claiming rewards in our opinion will beneficially impact Centrifuge Tokenomics and at the same time will allow engineers to focus on the development and building of protocol.


#### The action plan structure:

> 1. Create an Opensquare snapshot vote
> 2. If the Opensquare snapshot vote passes, provide 60 (sixty) days period for claiming the rewards from the date of the approval of Opensquare Snapshot, after which no more rewards will be minted. 
> 3. After 60 (sixty) days from the approval of the Opensquare snapshot vote(if it is passed) upload an empty claim tree.
> 4. Remove the crowdloan pallet (modlcc/rewrd) in the upcoming Centrifuge Runtime Upgrade.


### Change or improvement 
- Discontinue crowdloan rewards claiming 60 (sixty) days after the date this proposal passes (if it is passed)

### Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO 
- Discontinuing Centrifuge crowdloan rewards will ensure that human resources are better allocated and efforts are focused on developing and implementing new features as well as a beneficial impact on Protocol Tokenomic. 

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-unclaimed-polkadot-rewards/6035

Link to the Opensquare Snapshot: https://voting.opensquare.io/p/183