---
cp: 86
title: OpenGov Technical Committee Mandate Request
authors: William
contributors: 
uses-component: CP1
impacts/modifies: 
date-proposed: 2024-01-30
date-ended: 2024-02-29
status: passed
---

## Short Summary

Proposal for the creation of the OpenGov Technical Committee (TC), composed of k/f runtime engineers and people with technical expertise and knowledge about the Centrifuge chain.

## Background

In the proposals to migrate to OpenGov on both [Centrifuge](https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-centrifuge-migration-to-opengov/5984) and [Altair](https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-altair-migration-to-opengov/6011), it is defined that the Whitelisted Caller track will be managed by a TC.

## Description of Activity

### Reviewing referenda

The TC will monitor all submitted referenda to ensure

1. They are submitted correctly
2. They are not malicious/harmful to our chain

### Whitelisting referenda

The TC can whitelist referenda that can afterwards be submitted with the Whitelisted Caller track. The flow for this process will be:

1. The TC opens a motion to whitelist a call (e.g. authorizing a RU)
2. More than 50% of the TC approve the motion
3. Closing the TC motion whitelists the call
4. Anyone can open a referendum on the WhitelistedCaller track to dispatch the whitelisted call
5. The referendum succeeds/fails
6. The encapsulated whitelisted call is dispatched/not dispatched

NOTE: In OpenGov, the correct track for the call is checked during dispatch, not earlier. Thus, if the call has not been whitelisted, the above process will fail at step 6.

The proposals will also be submitted to GitHub to keep the process consistent with our current governance process for submitting proposals.

## Description of Group

Initially, the TC will consist of 7 members:

* @WilliamFreude (Facilitator)
* @jeroen
* @mustermeiszer
* @lucasvo
* @cassidy 
* @luis 
* @cdamian

If this proposal passes, these initial members will be seeded in the runtime upgrade that implements OpenGov (on Centrifuge and Altair, respectively).

The members of the TC will be managing the group’s composition themselves (i.e. adding/removing members). To add/remove members, the TC will vote and simple majority is required (more than half of the members must consent).

From a technical standpoint, the initial implementation will be done via the `pallet_collective` (used for Council right now) and `pallet_membership` (not used in Centrifuge runtime, but is default membership handler for collectives such as Council). This combination provides a flexible configuration for adding and removing members.

Example of adding members:

1. Initial members: A, B and C
2. One of these members (say A) open a TC motion to add D and E
3. B or C approves
4. Simple majority has been reached (by A and B/C)
5. D and E are added to the TC

The same process would apply for removing members.

## Budget

No budget is requested.

## Delivery and Reporting

If this proposal is accepted by the token holders, the TC will come into effect immediately. Testing of the Whitelisted Caller track will be conducted on the Altair chain (if that migration proposal passes).

## Change or Improvement

This proposal will bring two advantages in a migration to Opengov; ensuring the quality/safety of submitted referenda and allow us to fast-track proposals with the Whitelisted Caller track on both chains.

## Alignment to the mission of Centrifuge DAO

The OpenGov TC will play an important role in our onchain governance to ensure the safety of the protocol and that time sensitive referenda are submitted in a timely manner.

## Next steps

After the RFC period, this proposal will be submitted to GitHub and a snapshot vote will be created on OpenSquare. If the snapshot vote passes, the group will have received its mandate and the members will be added in an upcoming RU.

Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-opengov-technical-committee-mandate-request/6085

Link to the OpenSquare Snapshot: https://voting.opensquare.io/p/186


