---
cp: 90
title: Recovery of lost tokens
uses component: CP4
proposal-type: Technical
author(s): Stefan
date proposed: 2024-02-14
date-ended: 
status: voting
---

### Short Summary
Recovery of lost tokens

### High-level objective
Burn tokens on an inaccessible wallet address and mint the same amount of tokens on a new wallet address while increasing the vesting schedule lock

### Background
I, Stefan George, am writing this proposal to request the burning and reissuing of my personal CFG tokens.

Unfortunately, I lost access to my Centrifuge wallet, which makes it impossible to access my Centrifuge tokens. For unfortunate reasons, the wallet is dysfunctional, and the backup of the wallet is not complete making it impossible to restore access even after significant effort was applied to restore access.

The respective tokens are held in the following wallet: https://centrifuge.subscan.io/account/4gResb8JcTKHgm99XHTcfeXKzYwsL7kyaPQJzqtfK53ZHdy2?tab=extrinsic

The tokens were purchased from members of the Centrifuge founding team on 04.04.2022 through an OTC transaction, contractually assigning the account above to me, Stefan George. Tokens were issued in a vesting contract for 730 days.

I am serving as CTO and co-founder of Gnosis. This proposal is coming from me, personally, and not from Gnosis. There are ongoing collaborations 2 between Gnosis and Centrifuge, which I did not initiate but supported. Those should not be considered for this proposal. Independent of the outcome of the proposal, I will continue to support Centrifuge. I participated personally again in the last round of Centrifuge and believe in the mission of Centrifuge to provide the platform for real-world assets.

I propose to reissue the tokens to a newly created wallet with an additional 360 days vesting, extending the total period to 1090 days.

### Description of Activity
Please be informed that this proposal does not aim to augment the token issuance. Instead, it seeks to solely regain access to irretrievable tokens and increase the vesting lock period for the recovered tokens.

The action plan structure:

Create an on-chain governance vote (democracy proposal) for burning tokens on the inaccessible wallet address (4gResb8JcTKHgm99XHTcfeXKzYwsL7kyaPQJzqtfK53ZHdy2) and mint the same amount of CFG tokens on a new wallet address (4gKHDr9DkLz2GDbYTfZME174Q8CLoDpbgW9iXykiuHXba4Pv) while increasing existing vesting by + 360 days (total period to 1090 days).

### Change or improvement

- Burn 1,123,090 CFG tokens on lost hardware wallet 4gResb8JcTKHgm99XHTcfeXKzYwsL7kyaPQJzqtfK53ZHdy2

- Mint 1,123,090 CFG tokens on a new wallet address 4gKHDr9DkLz2GDbYTfZME174Q8CLoDpbgW9iXykiuHXba4Pv

- Increase vesting schedule lock by 360 days ( total period of lock 1090 days )


Link to the RFC on the Forum: https://gov.centrifuge.io/t/rfc-recovery-of-lost-cfg-tokens/6131

Link to the Subsquare voting: 
